>> Josh Long: This is important.
Let's make sure we're all on
the same page on this, okay?
I went to Start Touch Spring IO,
I chose here,
I chose a bunch of different
infrastructure pieces,
databases, Redis MongoDB.
You can inspect the project that gets
created for you on Start Spring IO by
going to the Explore button and
you can see the files that get created and
you can even see what Docker
compose file was created for you.
So if you want an easy way to bootstrap
your MongoDB Redis Neo 4J, Postgres,
whatever, anything that spring supports,
which is everything, basically,
you can often find an easy config file for
you there.
Okay, so that's part one.
What does that do at runtime
when you create a new project?
Well, when I chose Docker Compose
on Start Spring IO,
it added this dependency spring boot
Docker Compose that has the effect.
Here's a brand new public static void
main, never touched, never changed.
I run this and you can see it's taking its
sweet time to run the Docker image for me.
So the project that we just looked at,
there's two distinct steps.
One is you run Docker Compose up and
then two, you run the program.
By default, though, if you choose
Docker Compose and Start Spring IO,
Spring will do both things for you.
It'll start up Docker for you, and
then it'll start up the Java code, right?
It'll automatically detect the presence
of compose.YAML in the root product, yes?
>> Student: So just out of curiosity,
is that going to be problematic when
I go to deploy my enterprise app?
>> Josh Long: No, because it only
happens in development mode.
Yeah, so when you package it up
as a jar or as a native image,
it doesn't include the code
that does that, okay?
So that's a very good point.
But what is the benefit of this?
The benefit is that now if somebody took
this particular project, not the one that
we looked at in the intro, I wanted to
keep those two things teased apart.
If somebody wanted to take this
code in a brand new git repository,
Git clone run,
just do maven Spring boot run.
As long as they've got Docker and
a JRE, right, this will work.
It'll have Postgres and
it'll have the code.
It comes with it, right?
So what it's doing is it's
actually shelling out.
You can see it says Docker CLI, right?
Behind the scenes, it's actually
shelling out and running whatever's
in the Docker Compose file here,
which, in this case, is Postgres.
It's running that for me.
And you can see that here.
If I go to the Command line,
Docker PS, there's Postgres.
Now I'm going to stop the Java process.
Okay, goodbye.
Now, uh-oh, Docker's gone, right?
It also shut down the container, which is.
It's fine,
I understand why it's doing that.
But also postgres doesn't really.
It's not one of those.
It's not serverless, right.
You're supposed to keep that thing
running for more than a second.
So if ever you're making changes and
you have to affect the restart,
it'd be a shame to restart
that every single time.
So Spring Boot gives you
some control over this.
Okay, you get Spring Docker Compose
Lifecycle management, Start only.
Okay, Start Only.
So I start this now, and I do docker ps.
It's fine.
Stop it.
By the way,
that one started up Docker, right?
This is a web Server and
the Postgres support.
So it took 1.7 seconds
with Docker Compose.
If I go over here,
Postgres is still running.
It didn't stop it this time, right?
Now I go back and
I restart the program, okay?
And that took 0.9 seconds.
So 0.8 seconds saved by not
having to manually shell out and
do Docker compose up on your behalf.
And it's connected.
Now that still is a lot slower than if you
didn't have this on the class path at all,
right?
Like if I just comment that
out as I've just done,
now it's not in the class path at all,
right?
So that's 0.5 seconds.
It's almost half a second
just to start up,
just to detect the presence of and
then not do anything about Compose YAML.
So it's up to you.
But I like to keep this in there,
especially if you have a large team.
This can help people standardize.
They can know exactly how to start it and
run it.
If it's just you, maybe just comment
this out and run it yourself,
docker compose up.
Okay, now what else does Spring Boot
do with the presence of this on
the classpath?
Well, in addition to starting or
stopping the Docker image for you,
every single time you restart the image,
it also automatically connects you.
So let's say I am using Spring Boot.
What did I do on the build?
Did I choose a JDBC library?
I don't have anything for JDBC.
Let me just add here, and then this, and
I'll choose Spring Boot Starter JDBC.
Cmd + Shift + I,
this is going to be low-level
database connectivity stuff, okay?
And the reason I care about that is
because I want to demonstrate that I
am connected.
So let me create an application runner.
This is going to be a thing that runs
when the application starts up, okay?
Jdbc, Sorry,
Application runners are just ways to
run when the application starts up.
It's a listener, a callback event.
It's like onload for
your enterprise application.
So there's the database, db.SQL.
Select all from customer, right?
Or even better yet, select one, okay?
Query, integer, class,
dot, single, whatever.
And I can get the int value, right?
So var count system out there, okay?
So when the application starts up,
it's going to inject this nice fluid DSL
that I can use to talk to a SQL database.
I'm going to issue a query against
my SQL database, get a response,
turn it into an int value,
and then print that out.
So that's worked.
And that only works because
I'm connected to a database.
So the question is how,
how is this thing connected to a database?
I didn't specify the credential, right?
You can see I've got compose YAML,
the Docker image has a username and
password and all that.
But Spring Boot,
how does Spring Boot know about that?
How does Spring Boot
establish a connection?
Especially since these are not
the default container credentials, right?
And the way that it does that is it's
actually interacting with the Docker
daemon behind the scenes.
So if you have this
Docker Compose support here,
then you don't need to specify
the normal credentials, right?
Spring data source, secret username,
my user and URL jdbc,postgres,
localhost this is what you would have
to do in your production environment.
Obviously you would never put
that in production, right?
That's your password.
You'd put that in an environment
variable or HashiCorp Vault or
something more sensible
than in source code.
But my point is these three
things are specified here.
And if I didn't have Spring Boot's
automatic starting up of Docker Compose
and integration with Docker Compose, I.
I'd have to specify those credentials.
That's fine, but
just know that that's the cost.
So as soon as I comment this out,
suddenly I need to both start up
Docker Compose by myself and
specify this stuff, okay?
So that git clone run life is easier when
you have the Docker Compose support.
Now, Docker Compose is great.
If you're like me some of the times,
I'll start up my main method and
then I'll iterate, right?
I'll make changes.
I'll start my main method, write some
code, hit an endpoint, make sure it works.
Some people, they're more sensible,
more logical.
They write the tests first.
In this case, they're not starting
up their production code and
then iterating that way.
They're starting up the test code and
cycling on that test driven development.
For those people, we have test containers.
So the Docker compose support gets run
if you run the main method in your ide.
But there's also the test code
in the source test Java folder.
You can see I've got a public
static void main entry point
in the source test folder,
okay, source test main.
So it's public static void main as opposed
to the actual public static void main in
the root of my production code and
source main Java.
Here's a test main method and
it says do everything that you do
in the production code,
which is demo application main and
extend what's possible by running
the test containers config that Test
containers config in turn is using this
nice Java API called Test Containers.
How many of you have
heard of test containers?
It's a Java library that you can
use to talk to the Docker daemon.
And there's some programmatic,
fluent DSLs that you can use to spin
up a Postgres container, or Redis,
or Neo4j, or whatever, right?
They have strongly typed objects that
you can use in Java to stand these up.
So here I'm saying run the postgres
container when you create this object in
Spring, it in turn results in
postgres being created and
run on your local docker
behind the scenes.
This is nice because now I can
run this test Java code and
it'll also run the test container support.
So do you need both Docker Compose and
test containers?
Usually not.
It's up to you, right?
I added both so
you could see what would happen, right?
You'll have one during your main code,
you'll have the other one during your
test code, and you can run
the Docker Compose from test code as well.
So really,
it's granularity of what you want.
I could have a test that
only needs Postgres.
I only create the Postgres container.
I have another test that
only needs MongoDB.
I only create that MongoDB.
Whereas with Docker Compose,
you got to put them all in there, right?
It's not usually convenient to have a
dozen different Docker Compose files with
different permutations of your different
collaborating infrastructure services.
Okay, all that to say git clone run,
that's what we want here, okay?
Docker compose, test containers.
You'll see I rely on Docker Compose
a lot because I want to.
It's pretty straightforward
if you don't know what to do.
Docker compose up, run the program.
You can see I'm running
inside of DevTools here.
And why is that valuable?
Well, because let's say I go ahead and
create AddController, @ResponseBody, okay?
@GetMapping, String helloWorld, okay?
And I'm gonna just, actually,
I've got the code running already.
Localhost, what did I call it?
Just forward slash?
Okay, did I add DevTools retroactively?
What am I running exactly?
This is this.
Sorry, let me, cd demo.
>> Josh Long: Okay, pom.xml.
>> Josh Long: Okay, go here,
localhost/helloworld.
Now go back to the command line or
to the code, rather add this.
Go back over here.
Refresh.
What is going on?
Did I not add devtools?
I did not add DevTools.
Okay, you have that in the intro.
I forgot to add it to this.
So we go back over here.
Got the web support dev tools.
This is your friend.
You wanna add DevTools to every
project whenever you can, right?
So let's see.
Postgres, docker, compose,
enter, UAO, demo zip.
I got too many demo zips.
There we go.
So DevTools now got the application.
Create this simple controller.
Okay, start that up.
Okay, it's up and running.
Localhost, hello.
>> Student: Hi, you did-
>> Josh Long: Thank you.
>> Student: Just 'Hi'.
>> Josh Long: There you go.
Okay, so there's that, but
that's not quite effusive or
ebullient enough.
So I'll add a few of those and
refresh, right?
I go over here and
I change the return type to be a map.
So I can get it like a JSON structure.
Go over here, map.of[message].
Put that in here and then refresh.
So what happens is the JVM
itself is very slow.
Spring Boot, super fast.
So if you want to get your application
cycled very quickly, keep the JVM warm and
then throw away spring and
just recreate it anew each time.
That's what it's doing here.
So you can see changes in your source code
almost instantaneously for template files.
If you're doing server-side HTML templates
and all that stuff, it's not cached, so
it changes instantaneously, right?
So you can move very, very quickly.